Warren Buffett needs little introduction
he's the Godfather of modern-day
investing for nearly 50 years Buffett
his run Berkshire Hathaway which owned
over 60 companies like Geico and Dairy
Queen Plus minority stakes in Apple
coca-cola and many others
his eighty two point five billion dollar
fortune makes him the third richest
person in the world and he's vowed to
give nearly all of it away the Oracle of
Omaha is here to talk about what shaped
his investment strategy and how to
master today's market
[Music]
I'm Andy serwer welcome to a special
edition of influencers from Omaha
Nebraska it's my pleasure to welcome
Berkshire Hathaway CEO Warren Buffett
Warren welcome thanks for coming so
let's start off and talk about the
economy a little bit and obviously we've
been on a good long run here a very long
run and yet does that surprise you and
what would be the signs that you would
look for to see the things were winding
down well I look at a lot of figures
just in connection with our businesses I
I like to get numbers not so so I'm
getting reports in weekly in some
businesses uh that but that doesn't tell
me what the economy's gonna do six
months from now or three months from now
it tells me what's going on now with our
businesses and it really doesn't make
any difference in what I do today in
terms of buying stocks are buying
businesses what those numbers tell me
they're interesting but they're not
they're not guidance to make yeah
if we buy business we're gonna older
forever so we're gonna good your bad
years in between years may be a
disastrous year something here and and
we care a lot about the price we do not
care about the next 12 months but are
you surprised at how long this economy
has been expanding I've been surprised
by all kinds of things in the last ten
years about the economy I mean I I don't
think there was any economists I've ever
read that talked about negative interest
rates for long periods of time I mean if
you go back and read Keynes or you read
Samuelson you read anything they do not
get into a negative rate environment I
think now there's still 11 trillion
that's of government debt around the
world that's at a negative rate so we've
never seen it before
and we've never seen at least the
conventional wisdom Otto this is same
period of long and growing deficits
while the economy is getting better
extremely low interest rates and really
very little inflation so something
different is happening but something
different happens all the time so and
that's one reason economic predictions
just don't enter into our decisions
Charlie Munger my partner
in you know 54 years now we've never
made a decision based on an economic
prediction whim and we make business
predictions about individual businesses
will do overtime and we compare that to
what we have to pay for but we have
never said yes to something because we
thought the economy was gonna do well in
the next year or two years and we've
never said no to anything because we
were right in the middle of a panic even
if the price was right all right so you
don't pay much attention to the dismal
scientists then I guess well I pay none
in the sense of as a guideline to doing
anything I've it's entertainment I mean
you know it's like going to variety show
or something like that but and I just
don't know of any economist that that
actually is what business is
successively as successfully or done
well in stock Paul Samuelson didn't know
he was a big shareholder burger but it's
you know they make guesses and though
there's so many variables I mean in in
the hard sciences you know you know that
you know if an Apple falls from a tree
that is gonna change over the centuries
because of anything or political
developments or 400 other variables that
go in but when you get into economics
there's so many variables and and the
truth is you've got to expect good times
and bad times in business and if you if
you were to buy an auto dealership and
you're you know wherever you live
locally or a McDonald's franchise or
anything like that you wouldn't try and
time the purchase you try and make the
right purchase at the right price and
you wanna be sure you got a good
business but you wouldn't say I'm gonna
buy it because growth this year is gonna
be 3% instead of a 2.8 percent or
something the sword fair enough
you have over a hundred billion dollars
of cash
you Berkshire has over 100 billion in
cash and you say that you always want
this company to be a fortress so how
much cash should an ordinary investor
have on a percentage basis
it depends on a personal situation I've
had it if you're working and something
where you're living off your your your
paycheck from week to week you want to
have a little cash or around then and
you certainly don't want to have a
credit card that's maxed out or anything
like that
but if you know if your house is paid
off if you don't have big living
expenses
you got a portfolio of decent
diversified businesses we need any cash
so you can be more cash free than
Berkshire is yeah yeah I've got
responsibilities you know we've got
insurance claims we could have
hurricanes that you know what happened
all kinds of things we might have to pay
up billions of dollars and I've got over
a million people that own shares that
are coming up run the place so we get
through periods like that but if I were
retired I had a say a million dollar
portfolio stocks that was paying me
30,000 a year in dividends or something
of the sort and my children were growing
the house was paid off of everything but
you know I wouldn't worry too much about
having a lot of cash around let's talk a
little bit about Apple everyone always
wants to talk about animal right it's
kind of the its stock it company you
have a forty five billion dollar stake
more or less how closely do you follow
the company you know people are
concerned they haven't really introduced
any new products well if you have to
closely follow our company you shouldn't
don't really know I made it I mean if
you if you buy a business did you buy a
farm you know you go up and look you
know every couple weeks to see how far
the corn is up and you know you worry
too much about whether somebody says
this is gonna be a year of low prices
because it's exports are being affected
or anything like that you know you buy a
farm and you hold it for I got one farm
that I bought in the 1980s and my son
runs it but I've been there once you
know I mean it it doesn't grow faster if
I go and stare at it you know I can't
cheer for it you know forever and I know
there's going to be some years when
prices are gonna be good
prices aren't gonna be good I know those
years when yields will be better than
others what about the form and if it
just and I don't care about economic
predictions on or anything the sort I do
care that over over the years it's well
tended to in terms of rotating crops and
I hope yields get better which they
generally have in fact that farm a
hundred years ago what about wood
produced 30 bushels maybe 35 bushels of
corn per acre now on a good year you
know it'd be 200 I mean we've really
made progress in this country that's one
reason commodity prices and go back a
couple hundred years they've moved so
little is because we've just gotten
better and better at whether it's cotton
or whether it's corn or soy beans are
all kinds of things and you and I have
benefited from that and so Apple is kind
of like a farm well it's a it's a long
term investment and if you owned if you
own the best auto dealership in town the
best brand and had something good
running it wouldn't drop by every day
and say you know how many people have
come in today or you know I think
interest rates are going up a little
maybe that'll slow down our sales or
anyway no you buy it knowing there's 365
days a year and you're gonna own it for
20 years so that's 70 300 days and you
know they're gonna things are gonna be
different from day to day and your dear
you shouldn't buy it up the day to day
stuff that's important let's switch over
to talk about buybacks which is another
hot topic these days and and you did a
fair amount if you look in the annual
report you can see that between December
13th and 24th it looks like you guys
bought back about two hundred and thirty
three million dollars worth of berkshire
which was right near that particular
stock market bottom how did you know
that what was going through your mind if
I knew it that's not a big purchase for
us actually and and now we will by
Berkshire only have lots of excess cash
all the needs of the business are taken
care of we spent fourteen billion
dollars on property plant equipment last
year
way more than appreciation so we take
care of the needs of the business then
we have excess cash and if we find
investment we'd love to do is find other
businesses to buy it but if our stock if
I think the stock and my partner Charlie
Munger think the stock is selling below
intrinsic business value we will buy in
stock so it obviously was at that point
well we thought so yeah yeah but you
know what's really intriguing is this is
when it goes down a lot I mean when
you're buying down our bills for for 60
or 70 cents which periodically you get a
chance to do in stocks then you know you
know it assuming you've got the the cash
you know whatever you know get so that
that some some surprise could really
take you out in some way but if we've
got excess cash we'll buy it as fast as
we can but at that point it would be
more like a 2009 rather than just yes
ember yeah but it's you know if you and
I own a McDonald's franchise together
and it's worth a million dollars and you
own 50% of it you come to me and you say
I'll sell out for four thousand you know
I'll buy you out you say wary of that
but tomorrow so just continuing about
buybacks Senator Schumer's and Sanders
want the government to weigh in to sort
of legislate when companies can do
buybacks and then also there's was a
report recently about executives doing
insider trading it appears around the
times of buy back so our buybacks are
kind of a problem well you'll have some
people that misbehave and respect them
any activity I made so the really
wouldn't have much to do with buybacks I
think buybacks the degree to which
they've been part of nefarious activity
and I've observed them for a lot of
years and are very close to zero but
that just made me the throne of
opportunities but uh that article did
not I didn't follow the conclusion on it
I mean you're distributing
the shareholders essentially in Dubai
dividends and presumably American
business should distribute money to its
owners occasionally and we do it we do
it through buybacks or we've done some
and we don't do it through dividends and
but most companies do it through having
a dividend policy and then if they have
but he'd be on the needs of the business
and I think if their stock is
underpriced that it makes nothing but
sense should the government tell
companies when to do it or at least
mandate conditions where they can't
well they do restrict you a little in
terms of if you're some general rule of
the SEC if you're having some kind of
this isn't quite the right word but
manipulative activity or anything like
that in the stock but no I don't think
that I don't think the government should
decide your dividend policy I don't even
think they should direct your capital
investments they can make it enticing to
make certain kinds of it does capital
investments which they do with renewable
energy for example I mean the government
has interest in fostering certain
developments in this country over time
and they do there's be a special oil
depletion allowance you know 50 years
ago and so on that that was more
politics than it was governmental policy
but certainly renewables are a prime
example of that but the idea of decided
directing whether you are entitled to
return cash to shareholders and the
manner in which you do it I don't think
really makes a lot of sense the 2020
election is going to be upon us before
we know it and I know that you had some
nice things to say about Mike Bloomberg
but it appears he is not going to be
running now yeah it's it's hard to win
with just a billionaire vote but I
admire menorahs me I wish he had run I
want to be very clear on that
president Trump was a business executive
so two questions is a business executive
the right kind of person to be President
and what characteristics do you look for
for a president that you would support
well I think a business executive can be
the right person but no I don't think
that because they're a business
that that you give them extra points and
number one I want to I want a president
that wakes up every morning and and
realizes that the greatest threat to a
country which has got all kinds of
things going for it weapons of mass
destruction and that we live in a world
where people organizations and
occasionally countries could have people
that would like to wipe out a large
percentage of the American people or
maybe other countries as well and that
you now have capabilities which I always
thought recently I might classify it as
a nuclear chemical and biological but I
think you have to add cyber now you know
you have some evil genius someplace that
that crazy reasons just like it happened
with anthrax back you know who knows
what motivates somebody that starts
sending to them anthrax letters and if
you have somebody that thinks that'd be
great send a false alarm to the Soviet
to the Russians and to the US that the
other side was launching or something of
the sort you know it's it's it's a very
very dangerous world it's a wonderful
world but it has dangers now that
started in August of 1945 and 1/9 Stein
said you know this changes everything in
the world except how men think and so I
want a president that has that same
filter that all of these other things
are important but protecting the country
and reducing the chance of successful
use of weapons of mass destruction
against us is the number-one job and I
think I think most of the presidents
I've talked to a couple kumano than over
the years and I I really think that they
do realize they may get lost in the
events of every day as they go along and
then beyond that I want a president that
has two objectives with the economy one
is to make sure that there's marvelous
goofs we have keep laying more golden
eggs and then I want a president that
also feels that if GDP is $60,000 per
capita
in the United States that nobody should
get left behind we've got a market
system that works marvelously and
turning out more goods and services
better ones
year after year done it all through my
life would you ever talk to a candidate
and say hey what do you think about
these three things well don't tell me
what I want to hear I want to hear what
they tell people who disagree with him
on the subject I I always like to ask a
candidate they usually finessed me
somewhere I know but I say what are you
for that the majority of your followers
are against you know I know you really
believe in that and that's reading the
test but I'm not sure that except under
some kind of sodium pentathol got a
great actress that's great but that's
the question you ask the presidential
candidates or presence that you would
speak to it if if I really want to get
and then said oh that's why Bernie
Sanders was so successful I made 90
percent of people who voted for Bernie
Sanders had probably not heard of him
two years earlier but they felt that
they knew exactly they felt they knew
exactly what he would do
I mean they probably was authentic and
and if you asked him you know what he
was for that most people might be
against he would tell you you know a few
questions about Kraft Heinz it was that
a mistake but we'll find out overtime
but but we did pay too much in my view
for for Kraft we didn't pay too much for
Heinz so when we started out it was
originally a non public partnership
between us and and but we did paid too
much in my view for Kraft and there's
not much you can do about things if you
pay too much and secondly there's always
been a struggle between the retailer and
brands I mean if if I've got a terribly
weak brand and I want to get into
Walmart I'm not gonna be able to do it
you know I mean I offer all kinds of
crazy concessions you know that and I
want to be in Walmart if I got I have
some sort of super packaged goods the
negotiation is way different if you have
something essential versus not
essentially 10 years ago Costco tried to
get rid of coca-cola Costco's got
terrific loyalty among customers and you
know and and their own Kirkland brand is
a thirty nine billion dollar brand now
and it moved from category to category
and they only started in 1992 so they
they know brands and they and but in the
end they put coca-cola back in if it'd
been royal crown Cola had to put it back
in so there's always that struggle
between the brands I mean and there
always will be but the retailer's net it
has been moving in their direction
particularly I think because of the
Amazon revolution first Walmart and then
Walmart Walmart yeah yeah but it's been
accentuated I think we have a new
retailing environment now I mean it it
is like it goes from night today but it
it moves someone and and brands that
people spend billions of dollars
developing and sponsoring TV shows or
sponsoring radio shows in the old
Campbell Soup was always on there with
Jack Benny or something you know when I
was a kid and it was big and it built
brands and people like obviously like
the product too but people are more
willing to change and it's harder it's
it's a somewhat different world than
what it is night and day I mean you were
very unlikely to keep changing brands
every day but it really surprised me
that that Gillette lost position I mean
I men don't like men don't like to
experiment much I move under better
experimenting but you know if a kid when
you were a kid Gillette cavalcade of
sports was your pal and brought you the
Rose Bowl and the World Series and all
that sort of thing you didn't you just
shape would you love the rest of your
life and you still do to a great degree
but it's not exactly the same as it was
even five years ago or so when we bought
crafts you mentioned Amazon as a game
changer in
I have to ask you you haven't bought the
stock you're an admirer of Jeff Bezos
the listing of the richest people in
America came out he's number one I think
your friend Bill Gates is number two
you're number three so you can see what
he's done in myriad ways and of course
the question is how come you haven't
bought Amazon is there still time to buy
would you still buy oh I always admired
Jeff I mean I met him 20 years ago or so
and and I thought he was something
special but I didn't realize you could
go from books to it what's happened
there no I I mean he had a vision and
executed in an incredible way something
that would not of you know that but
there's a lot of games I miss I would
have missed you know I would have missed
Microsoft even if I got in to know Bill
early or something those just aren't my
games I don't worry about the things
that I miss that are outside my circle
of competence of evaluating I I do I
have miss things who are within my
circle and that's a terrible mistake
those are my biggest mistakes you
haven't seen them but I don't it's not a
mistake because I miss Netscape or
something like that at all there I would
say that maybe 5% of the companies or
10% of the companies that most are
within an area my circle of competence
there's something I should be able to
understand all right well let me let me
switch gears then and ask you about
leverage a little bit and corporate debt
people are concerned about people are
concerned about federal debt at 22
trillion dollars should we reduce let's
just say the federal debt and how would
we do that well if you're running a
deficit getting close to 5% when things
are really good you know that's a new
world I'm and nobody neither the
Republicans are Democrats you're
particularly concerned about it and
we're not having a lot of inflation that
wasn't supposed to happen you know but
it's happening that's why I say you know
really you don't want to get hung up on
trying to make economic analysis because
nobody's any good go that nobody you
don't get rich doing that if you look at
invention in that Forbes list if you get
on the list the number of people of
I've done that by economic analysis I
think you're just about as old Shawn
there okay fair enough
um income inequality wealth inequality
you've talked about the Earned Income
Tax Credit is there more to it than that
should we adjust tax policy it seems to
be going the other way right now well
it's going the other way but I think I
think I think the Earned Income Tax
Credit is the best way to put money in
the pockets of people that don't fit
well into the market system but that are
perfectly decent citizens and that have
made a good bit of the success of
somebody like I've had with Berkshire or
something possible it wouldn't have
happened without the America we have and
if you go back go back 200 years and
we're all working out 80 percent of us
are working on farms the person that's
the best of that working in that farm
whatever it may be
is worth maybe twice the ones that's the
worst you know I mean that's the
difference between super talent and no
talent in the farm economy picking
cotton or whatever it may be now if
you're the best
middleweight fighter in the world you
know you may get twenty or thirty
million dollars and and and if you are
just a good citizen raise nice kids
helping the neighborhood and everything
else but you don't have market related
skills you'd be you'd be good on that
farm stone and you would be earning
something comparable but most of the
people around you but you don't have
something out of it as it gets more and
more specialized and it's going to
continue to get more specialized you
want two things for that person you want
them have a decent life I mean they live
in a country with 60,000 of GDP per
person you want them to you want them to
have a decent life and they can I also
think you want them to have a feeling of
accomplishment so you wanted to have a
job assuming that they're not
handicapped in some way you wanted to
have a job but the minimum wage would be
one way and say well we'll make sure
that they haven't I'm wearing their
pocket but that's got a lot of effects
in disturbing the market system they
just need more cash they don't need a
higher wage they need more cash in their
pocket and and the government at a
relatively local
come provide a decent living friendly
but it's living that's working forty
hours a week and has a couple of
children and we've gone in that
direction and it's sort of bipartisan
and you find both Republicans and
Democrats for it I think it would be
better not to have one annual payment
you know how'd that they get it monthly
and I think there are various things you
could do but you want it you want them
to feel part of the system and you want
to get them have them get as as more and
more of these golden eggs or like you
want them to get get get a little more
of their share I mean if we don't do
that and the Democrats win it's possible
we get you know big taxes on wealthy
people free college for all and and
those are bigger plans you want you want
more money in the pockets of every and
everybody's willing to work or is unable
to work and and we can do it a rich
family would do that you know I had six
or seven kids and I had some business I
wanted to pass on you know you'd pick
the most able person or mother because
that's the market system to do that but
you make sure that on all seven of the
family participated you didn't get more
than the one that you might give more to
the one that that that kept producing
the golden eggs you would but you
wouldn't just say to the other the one
at the lowest end who might be the best
kid of all and in most respects you know
he's the one that shares with everybody
you wouldn't it would say to that
Emperor that you know too bad that's
just the way the market system works you
know go guy your have your spouse get a
job for housing someplace right why
don't we do update about the health care
initiative which now the company has a
name yeah we're Haven was that your idea
no no I didn't worry about a name we
could have gone on there's no name
operation for ten years
now that that is we got a wonderful
partnership in the sense that it's got
law its large and has reasonable market
muscle with them more than a million
employees one of the three of us we've
got three CEOs that can make things get
done in organizations so are so big that
normally that they would get very
bureaucratic on a I mean if you try to
do this with many big companies you have
it up legal weighing and then you know
and and and public relations where you
know we don't have any of that stuff
they may have them in certain areas but
but I don't but Jamie isn't worried
about doing that sort of thing and then
neither is Jeff so so we've got a unity
of commitment and an ability to execute
on the commitment the only problem is
you've got a three point four trillion
dollar industry which is as much as the
federal government raises every year
that that basically is feels pretty good
about the system they as we went around
talking to people to find a leader for
the group for example you know everybody
says you know the system you know it
turns out very good medicine but you
can't go from five percent of GDP to 18
you know without without really making
it less competitive of among other
things in the world so everybody thought
the system needed some adjustment just
not their portable system had and that's
very human I do the same thing I'm sure
if I was in the same place so it's
there's an enormous resistance to change
while a similar acknowledgement the
change is will be needed and of course
if the private sector doesn't supply
that over a period of time you know
people will say them you know we give up
we gotta turn those over they got ruined
which will probably be even worse how
often do you talk to Jamie and Jeff
about it I know Todd combs I think that
Roger God really does all the work at
our but if this works you have the
credit from the from the berkshires dad
boys does Haven have to buy companies to
gain expertise and what do you know it
no I I noticed the plan I mean Eddie the
plan is support
a very very very good thinker on this
subject who's once is a practicing
physician and who commands the respect
of the medical community to in effect
figure out some way so that we can
deliver even better care and have people
feel better about their care too I mean
they have to perceive that they're
receiving better care over time and and
and stop the march upward of cost
relative to the country's output we've
got this incredible economic machine but
but we shouldn't we shouldn't be
spending eighteen percent when other
countries are doing something pretty
competent terms of doctors per capita
hospital beds per capita not the very
top stuff in medicine I think is very
much concentrated in this country and
and that's great I want us to be the
leader but I just don't I think we're
paying a price if we're paying seven
extra points of GDP that's 1.4 trillion
a year yeah is the administration
focusing by focusing on drug prices is
that sort of a rabbit hole as I'm
missing the big I mean they they're
trying and and and and Congress
generally I mean talk the average
congressman they read they regard as a
problem and they made and they see
specific instances you know of drug
prices or something like that but it's a
big problem to change I mean the trouble
is it intersects in so many ways and
that and that's why we've got quantity
heading it and we've got three bigger
sized organizations backing him we're
not trying to do it to make money I mean
that is not a goal that we end up with
some business that that we make money
off of and will he be talking to health
insurers for instance well he'll be
talking to everybody but it's it is his
game plan is not something we're trying
to try and lay out because it it's in
his head to some degree I mean I
we selected him by by hearing and
reading and so on what he's done but
he'll learn is we always work well we
will conduct certain experiments or he
will you know and and try out a
community where one of us has a lot of
employees maybe in their various ways to
experiment shifting gears where do you
find things like that Abe Lincoln tail
and leg quotes I mean you read
Bartlett's book of quotations probably
fifty years ago I looked at a few
Bartlett's quotations but but I mean I
read a lot and if you just remember
these things and apply for 88 years you
don't know what happened yesterday but
you remember the old stuff business
you've got a lot of interesting
quotations in your head that's great
okay so one company who invested in was
GE yeah and you did well with that
investment and yeah I was too early
actually if you look back I was very
active in the last half of September and
early October and then I wrote that
article in later October and I knew it
was gonna get bad I wrote the articles
gonna get bad but I didn't think the
stock market would react as much as it
did between then and March so I had more
or less used up our powder well before
the bottom was hit
that's interesting how have you avoided
not getting back into GE more recently I
mean I'm sure that they've reached out
to you everyone says so what does it
Warren Buffett invest in GE and save it
and take it to the promised land this
great American company well actually I
think Larry actually doing a good job
there Colton's the Danaher yeah there we
go but to Danaher is a good sale and I
think he's his priorities are straight
and I think he's very able guy and he's
on the right track and I'm a I'm a fan
of G ease in the sense that that we're a
big buyer from him we're a big seller to
him knowing the managers you know I mean
Jack Welch is a very good friend of mine
we don't agree on politics I never said
but we have a lot of fun together I love
it
so I've got a great desire for GE to do
well it hasn't it just hasn't looked
that attractive to me right you talked
about the growth of trees and letters
shareholder one was the third Grove
which was sort of the in between stakes
the equity interests yeah is it is it
the case that those are sort of not the
healthiest grove of trees and all I
would that be no the pilot Flying J
where you know they're they're companies
that under GAAP accounting we have to
record under an equity method we own
more than twenty percent but we don't
control them and so it's it it's treated
under GAAP accounting is a special
category and and and it it didn't fit
well when the other grow so I had to
make it a separate grow by itself it's
not it's not it's not that significant a
growth you say that the the some of
Berkshire is has a greater valuation
than the part is true
did you ever try to calculate that how
much is that well it depends on
circumstances I mean there's some times
when the flow from insurance can be very
valuable there sometimes when the
ability to use production tax credits
will say in the utility business but
have them on our as part of our
consolidated return helps but that
varies a lot but it is a plus and we can
move capital well take a business like
See's candy which we bought 40 odd years
ago it's a wonderful little business it
throws off of capital we've tried 50
different ways to expand you graphically
do all kinds of things it doesn't work
and we'll try it again and it won't work
but we can move that capital to buy help
by BNSF railroad or do all kinds of
other things so we've got a seamless and
and and and tax efficient way a moving
capital words needed and we've got some
companies that really chew up capital
and we got others that kick it off and
and we can move it from one one pie if
you try to do that with your investments
that you incur some taxes as you go
along doing it and it's less efficient
than what we've done you talked a lot
about the
tax cuts and the benefits to Berkshire
you didn't really get into the costs of
the tax cut which surprised me a little
bit what are the are their costs I mean
is it just free money well it makes a
difference the tax cut we get for
example our utilities as I mentioned in
the report that goes to the customers
that's just the nature of utility
regulation but but net we were a
significant beneficiary from the tax I
mean basically let's just say we had one
class of stock we got two but it's not
you and I own a business together and we
think we own all the stock but the truth
is before the tax cut the government had
a 35% share of the stock on income no I
didn't have a share of the assets but
had a share the income and if it want to
change it to fort it could have changed
it but fortunately it changed it to 21
and if we had a private business if we
had a mcdonald franchise together or an
auto dealership together you know the
third shareholder that invisible
shareholder the governor just handed us
back a bunch of the shares of stock and
and and went and our shareholders
benefited a lot of other shareholders
benefit right you talked about Ajit Jain
and Gregg Abel saying that Berkshire
blood flows through their veins have
they made a difference since they become
vice chairs and then are they like
Warren and Charlie no they don't they
don't have the interaction and they each
run a separate business inside and she
does not think about the other
businesses he thinks about the insurance
business and Gregg does not think about
the insurance business at all and and I
think about the money and the capital
and so on but they running two very big
businesses I mean a Jeets business you
know as you go all told at least a
couple hundred billion of assets you
know and and and Greg's business has a
hundred and fifty billion of revenues I
mean these are they both would fit up
there toward the top ten you know or so
in the country in terms of value so
maybe the top 15
but they're they're very big businesses
but they're not exactly like you to guys
it's oh no no no Charlie and I have a
partnership think about the whole place
and we've done it forever you know and
and we still do and Todd and Ted I
didn't see them mentioned well they they
they they they have 13 billion dollars
each including pension funds that are
pension funds that they they run and and
saw 173 billion we had at year-end in
equities they had well we got on in 73
Buffy had another 8 billion in pension
funds over 180 years old
they had 26 between them that their
manager they got total discretion on
that they don't ask me at the month end
I look and see what they did they they
don't do much they don't do a lot of
trading or anything but I I look to see
what changes they made and and Todd for
example I mean he made a couple of small
investments in in private placement type
operations and I know what the
businesses do but I can't tell you their
names
you know maybe was one of those you made
this investment in Oracle and then you
sold it was that something they did and
no that was not something they did that
was something I did yeah and you said
you didn't understand it that's why you
saw both and why'd you get it in the
first yeah well that's that's a good
question which I do not ever go to
answer I know I I seat about I know
enough about the club to know I don't
know enough about the cloud right okay
um so Barclays put out a note they said
they were lowering the estimates for
Berkshire for the EPS do you read that
stuff no well I mean I may read it
actually that money but I don't see it
out to read out put it that way
but there it just doesn't make any
difference at all I mean if I spent time
reading that I wouldn't have a time to
read ten case and we're not going to do
anything different I don't know what
we're gonna learn as I put in the annual
report and I really think this is unique
I mean we do not prepare financial
statements monthly for Berkshire and
there's no other company would do it
there but there's no sense doing it I
know I know where the money is and I
know what I know how the companies are
doing generally but what difference does
it make because I'm not gonna try and
hit any number for the quarter by you
know having a sale on insurance or doing
something even worse so it and Charlie I
mean he he knows he knows where we stand
and we know what businesses are doing
well Wishart and we certainly know where
the money is another one UBS survey of
Berkshire investors says the five most
important things to them are succession
investment performance ma opportunity
share repurchase insurance margins do
you read that all but I don't disagree I
mean I'm glad somebody understands us
your own investors yeah
well that's important 54 well to go back
to when I started my partnership in 1956
that Berkshire came out of there were
seven people sitting there at a table
having dinner relatives primarily and I
said here's the partnership agreement
it's done under Nebraska law that's four
or five pages you don't need to read it
but I said here's a little half page
what I call the ground rules and I want
you to read these and if you feel okay
about that about the interaction what
the expectations are and all of that
sort of thing then we'll join forces and
if you don't it's fine that other people
you know but we don't we shouldn't be
partners I mean you know if I'm gonna
have a partnership with somebody I want
to be compatible it is you know it and
when you have a public company you can't
control who comes in I can't control
some guy that comes in and thinks we
were gonna pay big dividends they're
supposed to stock or something like that
so by by actions and my communications
and everything I want to attract the
people that from the public market that
I want and I want to keep the others
away Costco was built Saul Price who
started the price Club that thing he sat
down and figured out the customer he
didn't want and he set up a system that
would keep away the customer didn't want
who did not want he didn't want somebody
buying a quart of milk with somebody
behind him with a
with a basket $200 worth of goods
waiting for that so we put it in a
membership fee and by putting in a
membership fee he killed all the drop in
business-to-business to belong to the
7-eleven we want Bircher don't to keep
out people who have expectations about
us that are different than ours I mean
good for them and I hope they find
somebody they fit but if you're gonna
run a church you want you want your
seats to be filled by people that are
generally want to listen to hear form of
religion that and you don't want it to
change every week and say gee I need a
new group and I'll go out and talk to a
bunch of investors and get them to come
to my church this sunny because there's
only so many seats in the church there's
a million six hundred forty five
thousand or so a equivalent shares and
those are the seats and I want them
occupied by people that are on the same
page I am the Church of Berkshire your
seems like you've got a big waiting in
financials and of course you've finally
invested in Jamie diamonds company why
banks right now they're businesses I
understand and I like the price at which
they're selling relative of their future
prospects I think 10 years from now that
they'll be worth more money and I feel
it's a there's a very high probability
I'm right and I don't think there will
turn out to be the best investments at
all you know the whole the whole panoply
of things you could do but I'm pretty
sure that they won't disappoint me its
climate change changing your insurance
businesses now it doesn't change the
insurance business does it change
modeling or something in the business no
it would change our insurance business
writing 20-year policies I mean if there
was something that changed life
mortality adversely to the interests of
live insurance coming here stuck with a
policy for 20 years if you write the
life insurance policy and that's you
know you you'll be paying your premiums
of its adverse to me that's what's
happened in long-term care insurance for
example but when you write a policy free
one year at a time you see what the
developments are and if you know it cars
for example are much safer to drive than
they used to be there used to be 15
deaths per 100 million miles driven now
there's a little over 1 on the other
hand they've become much more expensive
to
fix I'm in that little little side right
side do marry which I used to cost ten
bucks you know
now thousand bucks or something like
that so so you have things that are
changing in terms of if you're writing
collision experient insurance you got a
allow for the fact that that that that
windshield the bumper all kinds of
things are the the side view mirror and
all that their way their marksmanship
but if you're writing if your writing
liability you know that the that people
aren't gonna die as often they're so
climate changes like a climate car has
been changing but that the truth is that
you now can buy really big catastrophe
limits cheaper than you could buy them
in 2005 or there abouts allowing for
changes in the dollar and and and
concentration of population so so so far
rates have come down that's the reason
we've gotten out of the cat business to
a great degree we were the we were a
very big writer of cat business ten or
twelve years ago we aren't out of the
cat business because the climate change
we're because the prices aren't right
and the world will change and it's got
very serious consequences but but it
won't change that much from year to year
that you know we've done very well
during a period of some climate change
you've talked about technology advancing
faster than our ability to understand it
and I'm wondering if social media and
Facebook and Google and Russian trolls
coming in and is that maybe an example
of that are you still worried about that
problem well I think cyber poses real
risks do you matter II forgetting about
the problems even misinformation I'm
just thinking of you know we have
railroads running over 22 thousand miles
of track and some of them are carrying
ammonia and some of them return you know
chlorine and things we have to carry him
we have no choice about that number
required by law to carry him and you
know I would rather I would rather do
that in a non cyber world in a cyber
world and I would there are all kinds of
things I the problem by something like
cyber is
that it's it's moving and it's it's just
unpredictable whether you'll get some
crazy guy like suck the anthrax in there
you know what they can do becomes
magnified I mean when when when you saw
what you know 19 guys didn't you know
9/11 I mean it had tools in the hands or
potentially in the hands of either crazy
individuals crazy groups or even a few
crazy governments you know are really
something and and and and we don't
necessarily know what all the tools I
have are and that is moving all the time
I mean you know again Einstein said he
said I know not with what what
but what weapons World War 3 will be
felt thought but World War 4 will be
fought with sticks and stones you know I
mean it's it's a dangerous world I don't
know if you've been following this warn
but what do you think of Elon Musk's
behavior as a CEO well I think it has
room for improvement he yeah and he
would say the same thing just some
people have a talent for interesting
quotes and others others have a little
bit more of a blocker up there that says
this key and a problem and but he's he's
a remarkable guy but I don't see I just
don't see the necessity to communicate
you know I've never I I think I've got
seven tweets because a friend of mine
signed me up for it and she's called me
about a hundred times say can i tweet
this or that and I said yes two or seven
times I guess or something like that i
I've never actually written one myself I
I don't even know how to do it
have you talked to Elon ever I joined
The Giving Pledge so I have once or
twice that that's a lot of years ago uh
seven or eight years ago I'm not I mean
he hasn't come to our annual gathering
so I haven't seen him for seven or eight
years
so let's talk about this this trade war
that's been going on a little bit with
China and I guess I'd like to ask you do
you think that Donald Trump was right in
calling out the Chinese government and
basically putting them on notice I won't
have any comment on that in terms of
political activity I don't put my
citizenship in a bind a blind trust so
when the election comes around now other
hand people will interpret things I say
about any any president you know as to
some extent coming from Berkshire and
they'd and they don't come from
Berkshire I'm just an individual so I I
you know I think I'm glad to talk about
China but like I can't talk to you about
that part of it fair enough I mean do
you think there was room for improvement
then in terms of the trade relationship
between China and the United that China
and the United States absolutely
destined to be the superpowers you know
beyond my great-grandchildren lives and
and will always have be competitors and
will be competitors and in business
working with letters and ideas all kinds
of ways and there's no other way it
would be and we just have to make sure
that that competition doesn't yet get us
to a point where we don't realize that
the best world is one in which both the
United States and China prosper I mean
we do not want to have an island of
prosperity in the rest of the world
envious of us in a nuclear age and and
China doesn't Russia doesn't I mean we
all recognize the dangers of letting
competition get out of control and and
and become you can you can be
competitors without being enemies and
and that's that's what all powerful
nations have to realize over time I mean
it's different than 200 years ago when
you could have some dominant country and
then they may have done some things
didn't like but it didn't threaten the
existence of the world you really
threaten the existence to the world as
we know it
if important countries do not constantly
recognize that they can compete and they
can fight over certain things but they
can't regard to this essentially the
equivalent of war here's a question from
Kevin Chen who is a Berkshire
shareholder and an NYU professor and he
says and this is sort of a long in lies
what you were just saying Warren but do
you think that US and China will be able
to resolve their differences or our
conflicts unavoidable well I don't think
conflicts are unavoidable but I think I
think it has to be active thinking on
the part of every hugely powerful
country and Russia is hugely powerful I
mean 90% of the nuclear arms in the
world between US and Russia so they they
have to recognize that the best world
for them is one where they don't try and
grab all the apples basically and we
have to recognize that and we can't in
the United States we can't think that
either our ideas run the world you know
or we start getting aggressive about
things and China can't think that and
Russia can't think that and and that's
obvious you just have to make things you
gotta be sure things don't escalate
world war one you know with an Archduke
you know I mean you get you get these
can get chance incidents and and you
really want to I asked one of the
presidents one time but you know in
terms of what he would do if awakened in
the middle of the night was somebody
coming to him and saying absolutely and
on something they also launched on would
you launch on that and you've got 10
minutes at the side and I wouldn't want
to have that responsibility but but
you'll want to make sure you don't get
to that point right right
would you ever make a big acquisition in
China and if not aren't you missing a
huge portion of the answer is we would
no we would have you looked Oh
we've been made aware of things some
things yeah are you concerned on the
flip side of the coin are you concerned
that they're the rule of law is
different that the accounting might be
opaque well I'd want to be sure I
understood the accounting obviously some
businesses that'd be easier to do than
others but but I know the laws the
customs the accounting the people better
in the United States that I place else
so there's some small hurdle in in many
countries to get over which I can get
over I mean but but I just don't it's
just not as easy as looking at something
where I already know the answer you know
from previous transactions or something
of the sort so so it's easier to make a
big acquisition in the United States not
to do more work if I'm looking beyond
the borders but I love the idea of doing
it
when we made the acquisition Israel a
dozen years ago and I didn't know what
the tax rates were there I didn't I
didn't know what corporate law you know
I was I I suspected that it would all be
answered satisfactorily which it was but
I didn't just automatically know it it
seems like you're more open about doing
a deal in China than in previous
conversations I don't think so no I know
I I'm open yeah we made you know we made
two decent-sized stock acquisitions
there and that worked out fine those are
well PetroChina Andy why do you idea yes
yeah me whitey was Charlie's but
Charlie's yeah very well-versed on China
um the the trade the US trade deficit
has been widening and of course a lot of
that has to do with our trade with China
is that something that worries you well
I wrote an article about it for fortune
and the the trade situation many years
ago and wondering what our deficit got
to be large in relation P I don't think
it's I don't think it's a essential
level trade balance but I I think that a
trade deficit gets large and and it
looks like you have no
way out from it that that can be a real
problem over time I mean you know you're
you're shipping little pieces of paper
to the rest of the world and they're
shipping you goods I mean people are
working making underwear or shoes
someplace and they get little pieces of
paper from us and it gets very tempting
if you've done that enough to make sure
that those little pieces of paper aren't
worth very much overtime when they want
to cash up for something so and you
don't want to have we don't have any
problem running trade deficits but but
if we ran really large ones and we sort
of worked ourselves into a box where
they were we didn't really have a
solution to get the numbers down it
could be a problem and I wrote about it
one time but it's it's kind of a nice
thing actually just I mean wouldn't you
like to have something where you should
just have little pieces of paper and
somebody keeping supplying it was there
food or yes okay and last question China
is facing its slowest growth in nearly
three decades the leadership they're
lower the targets I think to around six
point five percent six percent are you
concerned about this slowing growth and
the impact on global markets well I
don't worry about in terms of global
markets I mean I China's gonna grow a
lot over time I mean they when you think
of what's happened was in 1949 or where
you know but there's been nothing really
like it I mean he had 20% of the world's
population at that time perhaps and
although really hadn't remotely achieve
their potential I mean that the
intellectual capacity they had decent
soil all kinds of things I mean and and
and what's happened there almost is
beyond belief and and that game's not
over but we've had incredible
developments in the United States I mean
you know real GDP per capita is six
times what it was the day I was born
in the United States six times and we
thought we were pretty
I'm country that everything no my
parents wouldn't believed it I mean they
they wear the thought you know this kid
has really got it made
it was true I mean we had this tailwind
and and China's had a hurricane mine
that you know and in the in recent
decades in a good way
absolutely because you were comparing to
the tailwind yeah hurricane over back
yeah at their back and at and and
they've they have found a way of life
that is dramatically different then
existed for the billion there was a
billion then maybe maybe a billion two
or whatever it is now and and they have
changed a country really of sizes I
don't think it's ever been anything like
it we've done it too but it took a
somewhat longer I mean it more stretched
out but it was a remarkable period but
but you know when you go to my first
went there in 1995 and then they
regarded as a miracle then I went back
it was a whole different country beyond
that Oh Warren Buffett thanks so much
for joining us
I'm Andy serwer you've been watching
influencers we'll see you next time
[Music]